[NEW RULES] - Define author's responsibility when presentational roles conflict arises (#2195)
auto-wcag/auto-wcag: _rules/aria-allowed-child-element-with-presentational-parent-1g88p9.md

---
id: 1g88p9
name: ARIA allowed child element of another element with presentational role
rule_type: atomic
description: |

>   This rule checks that allowed child element of another element with presentational role does not cause presentational roles conflicts

Reviewer: This rule seems like a subset of our `ARIA required context role` rule. It requires that elements that can't exist without a parent have that parent. The rule you propose is more focused, but it doesn't seem to cover anything that isn't also covered by the `required context` rule. Or at least, I can't find anything that isn't.

Would a better solution be to add the one or both of the failed examples to `required context` instead?

Author: I see the point. 

The intent was to cover a specific ARIA requirement in detail and comprehensively (Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution) to guarantee authors are clear on what to do in these scenarios. 

I'm uncertain about the next steps. 

The other two existing ARIA requirements are rather more vague but do cover the necessary aspects. If we decide to revert these new rules, we'll still need to add examples to the existing rules.

Reviewer 2: A "none" role only applies to three native elements that require hierarchies: 'table', 'ol', and 'ul'. 
   Not sure if the Failed Example 1 & 2 are already covered under
> ARIA required context role
Where the hierarchy for the child element is not met because of the parent's presentation role.

accessibility_requirements:
  aria12:conflict_resolution_presentation_none:
    title: ARIA 1.2, Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: satisfied
    inapplicable: satisfied
  wcag20:1.3.1: # Info and Relationships (A)
    secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because ancestor elements assigned a presentational role with semantic allowed child elements may prevents assistive technologies to convey relationship details, potentially leading to WCAG violations. Some of the examples that either pass or fail overlap with this success criterion.
input_aspects:
  - Accessibility Tree
  - CSS styling
  - DOM Tree
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Giacomo Petri
---

## Applicability

> This rule applies to any [HTML or SVG element][] that is [included in the accessibility tree][], is an [allowed child element](https://w3c.github.io/aria/#mustContain) of another element with an [explicit semantic role][] of `none` or `presentation`.

Reviewer: I don't think we should link to editors drafts. These are not stable documents.

> This rule applies to any [HTML or SVG element][] that is [included in the accessibility tree][], is an [allowed child element](https://w3c.github.io/aria/#mustContain) of another element with an [explicit semantic role][] of `none` or `presentation`.

Author: ```suggestion
This rule applies to any [HTML or SVG element][] that is [included in the accessibility tree][], is an [allowed child element](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.3/#mustContain) of another element with an [explicit semantic role][] of `none` or `presentation`.
```
